
Project Proposal - Galaxy Music Visualizer 

---------------------------------------------------

My project is going to be a music visualizer inspired by the stars and galaxy. The stars, or particles, will rotate around an origin and change color, speed, and size based on different frequenceis in the song. I don't know what song I'll do but it will be edm. For colors it will be a black background and probably sunset colors for the stars because all white wouldn't be as pretty to watch in my opinion. 

I was initially inspired by Jo Curtis's example of a music visualizer that is on the course website. I liked the idea of having an abstract art piece tha changed depending on the song. The galazy/star part of mine comes from my love of space. There isn't really a specific artist I took inspiration from. 

I know I'll have to figure out if there is a library or module that will help me analyze the frequency and temp of the song. I haven't done anything with audio and code before so that will be challenging. I think getting the math right for moving about an origin will also be an obstacle, I haven't done geometry or orbits in a while and may have to look that part up. I think that the idea will be simple but implementing it will take some time for sure. 

My first step was to map out my idea in more detail. I usually draw out and hand write kinda an outline for what I need my program to do. That way I also have an idea of how to organize my code. My first deadline I set for myself was to get an idea mapped out, which was fairly quick. Once I saw the music example from Curtis I knew I also wanted to do something similar. Making my space inspired was easy because I incorporate space into a lot of my projects. My first deadline is going to be this Sunday. It will be getting any functions made, figuring out the libraries for analyzing audio, and getting my star objects figured out. Then by Tuesday I want to have the stars rotating around a center, so I'll need to figure out the math or find a reference online. I don't think at this point I'll worry about getting the stars to change based on the audio I just need them to go in the direction smoothly. By Friday I'll have the stars changing based on the frequency of tones and stuff. I think that by having it mostly done by Friday gives me time to figure out any errors or weird things that are bound to happen. 

I've completed the base outline of my project in terms of what I need to do. I don't have the code or anything yet but have begun looking into how I'll analyze audio and looking at examples. I have the file created and added in some comments for organization. I'm thinking I'll have to use p5.sound and p5.FFT for the music stuff but I haven't looked into how that is or how exactly these work. 